            Software Design Description
                            On
                       <Project Title>




                               Guided By: Name of Guide
                            Prepared By: Name of Students


Date: ..............


           Mukesh Patel School of Technology
            Management and Engineering
                   Session: 2021-22
                                  Certificate

The SDD Report entitled “Topic Name” being submitted by
                “Candidate Name” (Roll No.:00000000000000)”
                “Candidate Name” (Roll No.:00000000000000)”
                “Candidate Name” (Roll No.:00000000000000)”


has been examined by us and is hereby approved for the award of degree
“Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Discipline”, for which it
has been submitted. It is understood that by this approval the undersigned do not
necessarily endorse or approve any statement made, opinion expressed or
conclusion drawn therein, but approve the report only for the purpose for which it
has been submitted.




(Internal Examiner)                                  (External Examiner)

Date:                                                 Date:




           DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
           Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering
                              TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION
     1.1   Purpose
     1.2   Scope
     1.3   Overview
     1.4   Reference Material
     1.5   Definitions and Acronyms

2. SYSTEM OVERVIEW
3. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
     3.1   Architectural Design
     3.2   Decomposition Description

4. DATA DESIGN
     4.1   Data Description
     4.2   Data Dictionary

5. OBJECT ORIENTED APPROACH
     5.1   Use Case Diagram
     5.2   Class Diagram
     5.3   Activity Diagram
     5.4   Sequence Diagram
     5.5   Collaboration Diagram
     5.6   State Chart Diagram
     5.7   Component Diagram
     5.8   Deployment Diagram

6. HUMAN INTERFACE DESIGN
     6.1   Overview of User Interface
     6.2   Screen Images
1. INTRODUCTION

       1.1     Purpose

Identify the purpose of this SDD and its intended audience.

       1.2     Scope

Provide a description and scope of the software and explain the goals, objectives and benefits
of your project. This will provide the basis for the brief description of your product.

       1.3     Overview

Provide an overview of this document and its organization

       1.4     Reference Material

List any documents, if any, which were used as sources of information

       1.5     Definitions and Acronyms

Provide definitions of all terms, acronyms, and abbreviations that might exist to properly
Interpret the SDD. These definitions should be items used in the SDD that are most likely not
known to the audience.

2. SYSTEM OVERVIEW

Give a general description of the functionality, context and design of your project. Provide any b
ackground information if necessary.

3. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE

       3.1     Architectural Design

Develop a modular program structure and explain the relationships between the modules to achie
ve the complete functionality of the system. This is a high level overview of                 how
responsibilities of the system were partitioned and then assigned to subsystems. Identify each hig
h level subsystem and the roles or responsibilities assigned to it.
Describe how these subsystems collaborate with each other in order to achieve the desired functi
onality. Don’t go into too much detail about the individual subsystems. The main purpose is to g
ain a general understanding              of how              and why the system was decomposed,
and how the individual parts work together. Provide a diagram showing the major subsystems an
d data repositories and their interconnections. Describe the diagram if required.
       3.2     Decomposition Description

Provide a decomposition of the subsystems in the architectural design. Supplement with text as
needed. You may choose to give a functional description or an object-oriented description. For
a    functional     description,     put   top-level   data    flow   diagram    (DFD)     and
structural decomposition diagrams. For an OO description, put subsystem model, object
diagrams, generalization hierarchy diagram(s) (if any), aggregation hierarchy diagram(s)
(if any), interface specifications, and sequence diagrams here.

4. DATA DESIGN

       4.1     Data Description

Explain how the information domain of your system is transformed into data structures. Describe
 how the major data or system entities are stored, processed and organized. List any databases or
data storage items.

       4.2     Data Dictionary

Alphabetically list the system entities or major data along with their types and descriptions.

5. OBJECT ORIENTED APPROACH

       5.1     Use Case Diagram
       5.2     Class Diagram
       5.3     Activity Diagram
       5.4     Sequence Diagram
       5.5     Collaboration Diagram
       5.6     State Chart Diagram
       5.7     Component Diagram

       5.8     Deployment Diagram

6. HUMAN INTERFACE DESIGN

       6.1     Overview of User Interface

Describe the functionality of the system from the user’s perspective. Explain how the user will
be able to use your system to complete all the expected features and the
feedback information that will be displayed for the user.
       6.2    Screen Images

Display screenshots showing the interface from the user’s perspective. These can be hand-
drawn or you can use an automated drawing tool. Just make them as accurate as possible.
(Graph paper works well.)
